Se software project planning (#35)
Vaibhavpratapsingh22/Courses: 4-software-engineering/4-project-planning.md

2. **Project Estimation** - For an effective management accurate estimation of various measures is a must. With correct estimation managers can manage and control the project more efficiently and effectively.

3. **Effort estimation** - The managers estimate efforts in terms of person months(PM) to produce the software. For effort estimation software size should be known. This can either be derived by managers’ experience, organization’s historical data or software size can be converted into efforts by using some standard formulae.

4. **Time estimation** - Once size and efforts are estimated, the time required to produce the software can be estimated. 

5. **Cost estimation** - This might be considered as the most difficult of all because it depends on more elements than any of the previous ones. 

## Defintion of Project
A project is a series of tasks that need to be completed in order to reach a specific outcome. A project can also be defined as a set of inputs and outputs required to achieve a particular goal. Projects can range from simple to complex and can be managed by one person or a hundred.

> ### Project VS Software

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Project vs Software
```

> ### Project VS Software

Reviewer: this was 
### Project vs Product

4. **Time estimation** - Once size and efforts are estimated, the time required to produce the software can be estimated. 

5. **Cost estimation** - This might be considered as the most difficult of all because it depends on more elements than any of the previous ones. 

## Definition of Project
A project is a series of tasks that need to be completed to reach a specific outcome. A project can also be defined as a set of inputs and outputs required to achieve a particular goal. Projects can range from simple to complex and can be managed by one person or a hundred.

### Project vs Product
A project is a temporary endeavor that is undertaken to create a unique product or service. With a project, there is a clear definition of what needs to be delivered by a specified date and time. A product is anything that can be offered to a market to solve a problem, or to satisfy a want or need.

> It’s important to note that a product can only be developed within the context of a project, and multiple projects can occur within a product’s life cycle.

Reviewer: I would not really agree with this. A product is not always developed in the context of a project. Especially having the knowledge of agile development - we know that we keep developing a product in incremental and spiral way. Generally, there is a estimate given to features in a product and not deadlines. And project strictly talks about fixing scope and time - which is not the case here.

Reviewer 2: don't we say that a product has to be developed over time and with that being said it's often expected to start with a project or multiple projects which will eventually contribute to the product's features? @udeysingh95

2. **Project Estimation** - For an effective management accurate estimation of various measures is a must. With correct estimation, managers can manage and control the project more efficiently and effectively.
3. **Effort estimation** - The managers estimate efforts in terms of person-months(PM) to produce the software. For effort estimation software size should be known. This can either be derived by managers’ experience or organization’s historical data or software size can be converted into efforts by using some standard formulae.
4. **Time estimation** - Once size and efforts are estimated, the time required to produce the software can be estimated. 

5. **Cost estimation** - This might be considered as the most difficult of all because it depends on more elements than any of the previous ones. 

## Definition of Project
A project is a series of tasks that need to be completed to reach a specific outcome. A project can also be defined as a set of inputs and outputs required to achieve a particular goal. Projects can range from simple to complex and can be managed by one person or a hundred.

### Project vs Product

> Product may be something produced by effort, project is the process of effort. Product may be a customer service whereas project is the process of service. Product lay stress on objectives, but project focuses on scope, resource, quality.

Reviewer: Product and Project are not well compared here. 
Define them more clearly. what is a Product? If I may ask you at this point - how would you describe me a product and how is it different from a project then?

Author: Project is like a container in which we have to perform all phases like plan, design, implement, test etc. Whereas a product is the output that we get after all these phases are completed.

## Definition of Project Planning

Project planning needs utmost care and attention. <ins>Lack of planning is the main cause of schedule slippage, cost overruns, and leads to poor quality of software.</ins>

> Project planning provides a framework that enables the manager to make reasonable estimates to resources, cost, schedule. The estimates are made within a limited period at the beginning pf the software project and should be updated regularly as the project progresses.

Reviewer: the definition comes so late - the first thing in this section should be - the definition of project planning itself.

1. Organic
2. Semidetached
3. Embedded

1) **Organic** : A development project can be treated of the organic type, if the project deals with developing a well-understood application program, the size of the development team is reasonably small, and the team members are experienced in developing similar methods of projects. Examples of this type of projects are simple business systems, simple inventory management systems, and data processing systems.
2. **Semidetached**: A development project can be treated with semidetached type if the development consists of a mixture of experienced and inexperienced staff. Team members may have finite experience in related systems but may be unfamiliar with some aspects of the order being developed. Example of an Semidetached system includes developing a new operating system (OS), a Database Management System (DBMS), and complex inventory management system.

3. **Embedded** : A development project is treated to be of an embedded type, if the software being developed is strongly coupled to complex hardware, or if the stringent regulations on the operational method exist. For Example: ATM, Air Traffic control.

> ## Putnam Resource Allocation Model

Reviewer: Resource Allocation is not present in this document. 
I would suggest to remove this model from here and put a more general overview of **Resource Allocation**
Putman Resource Allocation model is a model for resource allocation. This is a bit advanced topic to be covered at this stage. Also, I have never come across this model in my work experience.

<img src="https://wikimedia.org/api/rest_v1/media/math/render/svg/0d307d15a652aa0632c51f5f1df2e8956a38c803">

Here, 
- size is the product size, B is a scaling factor and is a function of project size, Productivity is the process productivity, the ability of a particular software organization to produce software of a given size at a particular defect rate, The effort is the total effort in PM, Time is the total schedule of project in years.

From above equation we can calculate the effort as, 

<img src="https://wikimedia.org/api/rest_v1/media/math/render/svg/1721a429440d1975f9d17613a8c2d3ca97669d2a">

*One of the key feature of this model is simplicity.*

## Risk Management

Software development is an activity that uses a variety of technological advancements and requires high levels of knowledge. Because of these and other factors, every software development project contains elements of uncertainty. This is known as project risk.
There are three main classifications of risks which can affect a software project:

> 1. Project risks
> 2. Technical risks
> 3. Business risks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3) **Risk Prioritization** : Risk prioritization helps the project focus on most critical risks, so that there should be least destruction. After the probability is determined, a table is made to formulate the risk of the project, and a priority level is made for every risk. The effect of the risk might be determined as catastrophic (threaten the survival of the plan), serious (would cause significant delays), tolerable (delays are within allowed contingency), or insignificant.

### Risk Control
It is the process of managing risks to achieve desired outcomes. After all, the identified risks of a plan are determined; the project must be made to include the most harmful and the most likely risks. There are three main methods to plan for risk management:

1. **Risk planning** : The main purpose of risk planning is to avoid the risk. It involves looking into the approach. It involves looking for different types of risks and their impact and then a plan is made, so that risks does not occur. If a particular risk cannot be avoided, a plan is made to reduce the impact of risk. Hence, risk management planning produces a plan for dealing with each significant risk. 

> 2. **Risk Resolution** :It is a approach, applied to solve the risk. It is the execution of risk plans. Some risk resolution approaches are :
> 
>    (i)	**Prototypes** - The problem of poorly understood requirements can be solved with this approach.
> 
>    (ii)	**Benchmarks** - Checkpoints are kept, so that there are no cost and schedule overruns.
> 
>    (iii)	**Staffing** - By employing skilled staff the problem of in experienced staff can be solved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Risk Resolution**: It is an approach, applied to solve the risk. It is the execution of risk plans. Some risk resolution approaches are as follows
 - **Prototypes** - The problem of poorly understood requirements can be solved with this approach.
- **Benchmarks** - Checkpoints are kept, so that there are no cost and schedule overruns.
- **Staffing** - By employing skilled staff the problem of inexperienced staff can be solved.
```

### Applications Of CMM
The capability maturity models have not taken over the world, however. These are heavyweight processes compared to popular software methodologies such as agile software development. CMM requires significant resources to deploy and might not meet
the needs of all organizations. Critics have claimed that CMM is best-suited for large bureaucratic organizations. 

## Summary
In this chapter, we discussed how we can plan for a project and its goals. Then we head up to cost estimation and its models. Then we have Putnam resource allocation which finds how much manpower would be required during different phases of software in terms of person-months. At last, we have project scheduling which finds the total duration of the project and then we have the  capability maturity model, its levels, applications.

In the upcoming chapter, we will study about Software Designing.

> ![Chapter-3](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Finished&message=Project-Planning&color=red) ![Chapter-3](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Source&message=www.javatpoint.com&color==orange)![Chapter-3](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=PRs&message=Welcome&color=blue)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

![Chapter-3](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Finished&message=Project-Planning&color=red) ![Chapter-3](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Source&message=www.javatpoint.com&color==orange)![Chapter-3](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=PRs&message=Welcome&color=blue)
```

It is the process of managing risks to achieve desired outcomes. After all, the identified risks of a plan are determined; the project must be made to include the most harmful and the most likely risks. There are three main methods to plan for risk management:

> 1. **Risk planning** : The main purpose of risk planning is to avoid the risk. It involves looking into the approach. It involves looking for different types of risks and their impact and then a plan is made, so that risks does not occur. If a particular risk cannot be avoided, a plan is made to reduce the impact of risk. Hence, risk management planning produces a plan for dealing with each significant risk. 

Reviewer 2: can we rewrite it as:
Hence, risk management planning is a tool to detect, analyze deal with these risks to minimize the impact.
